---
title: "My next OLED TV probably just gets strapped to my face"
date: 2023-12-15 19:37:46 +0000
url: /2023/12/15/my-next-oled.html
categories:
- "tech"
---
> Frankly, I think everyone is so focused on comparing Vision Pro to the Quest 3 that they’re missing the point of what the Vision Pro really is: it’s going to disrupt the TV and projection screens industry. Why would anyone spend $3,000 on a cutting-edge TV when the Vision Pro will give you a resizable screen that's also portable and can easily display all of your content?

[Raymond Wong gets it](https://www.inverse.com/tech/apple-vision-pro-photos-app-spatial-video-hands-on).

I'm not a huge VR booster, but for the last two decades I've consumed Apple products while they've disrupted consumer electronics and consumer computing again and again. The Vision Pro is not something I yearn to use every day — unless it obsoletes the main screens in my life. I still haven't bought that second monitor, and the only person in the house that wants to upsize our OLED TV is me. 

I think there's a real possibility the Vision Pro is the OLED TV upgrade excuse I've been waiting for, and it's pitch over the competition is very, very Apple: if you're just buying for yourself, the Vision Pro is the simplest way to get a huge OLED TV. You don't have to compare specs. You don't have to measure distance from the couch, or be concerned about windows and glare. You don't need a stud finder or to hire an installation service. 

It still comes down to absolutely nailing viewing comfort and immersiveness, and any doubts I may have harbored about a VR headset not getting there soon may be fading if I keep reading accounts such as Raymond's above.


