---
title: "How I try to email"
date: 2024-01-02 21:37:57 +0000
url: /2024/01/02/how-i-try.html
categories:
- "tech"
---
My yearly digital tidy and email hygiene reset

* everything in the inbox(es) as of  Jan. 2: mark as read
* create folder(s) for previous year (2023), if you haven't already made one[^1]
* inbox contents go to year folder
* you're now at inbox zero; don't celebrate anything[^2]
* in settings, give your inbox list view a good body length, maybe 2-4 lines depending on your needs, so you can skim the email without having to open it. do you need to respond? really?
* every time you check mail
  * unsubscribe. you know how to resubscribe if you really want it.
  * select all, mark as read

Eventually I lose momentum with this practice. But I don't sweat email that much anymore. There are easy ways to bubble up important messages if you need to, but skimming a few times a day and only digging into the obvious ones that need my attention is a good balance for me. I don't bother archiving until it gets out of control. Or i'll just make the 2024 folder. 

Red badges drive you crazy? Just disable them. **You'll still have email.** How does that badge serve you? Make email work on your time.

[^1]: i inevitably do this whole process at least one additional time in the year, so i've already made the folder in that case. 
[^2]: its like counting angels on the head of a pin. are you at inbox zero for a minute? ten minutes? that email train is coming sooner or later. you're not really in control of your inbox… let it go